good afternoon this is Tam Wendell with
bushcraft on fire and happy to be back
with you again today I would like to
share with you an experiment on cleaning
cast iron and I've had people asked me
how do you clean cast iron when it looks
like it has been destroyed so we found a
piece of cast iron that definitely looks
destroyed it is coated in wax there's
all sorts of pitting on the outside I
don't know if it's salvageable but it's
definitely cleanable so without further
ado I will show you how to get this rust
and all of this these layers baked on
here off of this cast iron the first
step I'm going to do is to just use
plain household vinegar and I'll pour
vinegar into the pot and I'll put on
some gloves
you
I'm going to use some crumpled up
aluminum foil as a scrubby brush make it
as you can see that rust is starting to
come loose yeah it is to get the whole
pan outside and inside totally scrubbed
and then we'll move on to the next step
all right I've been working it for a
while here the rust has got into the
cast iron pretty deep so it's taking a
bunch of elbow grease as you can see the
foil gets rock-hard and once you come to
a point where there's no more rough
edges to scrub with just get yourself a
new ball of foil
some of the rest is coming loose along
the edges here so once I've I'm happy
with the amount of rust I pulled off on
this inside I'm going to flip it over
and do the outside of the pan that's
outside you can see here is very deeply
pitted there's actually little pockets
that have the cast iron has come off of
it but we're not gonna give up we'll
just keep on scrubbing get as much of
this surface rust as I can and then
we'll move down to a deep crust okay
I've got the pan here as far down as I
can see obviously it's pretty filthy
looking so what I'm going to do is dunk
it in water which typically you don't
leave your cast iron in water I'm not
going to leave it I'm just putting it in
to give it a rinse so we can see where
we're at the base is still pretty deeply
coated and then all these sides on this
spot the rust has simply just eaten away
the first layer of the cast iron on the
outside basically the same thing some
pretty big chunks along here but we're
going to move over into the next step of
my cleaning which is to basically spray
it down with oven cleaner
what I'm going to do is coat the inside
and outside I'm going to put it in a
plastic bag and leave it to leave it
overnight and then we'll take a look at
it again tomorrow to see how we're doing
you want to breathe this
when I get is good and thick of a layer
of Easy Off it can be just a generic
brand but it of the oven cleaner spray
good good thick layer
all right and I'm going to pop it in my
plastic bag I'll just let this set
overnight and see how good it's doing
tomorrow
this is Tam Wendell with bushcraft on
fire thanking you for joining me on part
one we'll see you again on cartoon